home.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Home
---

# About me (Informal) #

I am a scientist and an engineer that is interested in moving forward the powerful
and beautiful field of A.I. closer to true Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).
I believe an important direction is understanding how to combine cognitive and neuro-inspired models, specially investigating how reasoning and learning work together.
In addition, I also believe being able to adapt to new tasks using prior experience and knowledge is crucial for AGI to occur.
Consequently, I decided to pursue a Ph.D in AI and machine learning. 
I currently work on meta-learning and machine learning (ML) for
Theorem Proving (TP) at Stanford University. 

# Bio #

Brando Miranda is a current Ph.D. Student at [Stanford University](https://stanford.edu) under the supervision of [Professor Sanmi Koyejo](https://cs.stanford.edu/~sanmi/index.html)
in the department of Computer Science.
Previously he has been a graduate student at [University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign](https://illinois.edu/), Research Assistant at MIT's 
[Center for Brain Minds and Machines (CBMM)](https://cbmm.mit.edu/), and graduate student at the [Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)](https://mit.edu/).
Miranda's research interests lie in the field of meta-learning, foundation models for theorem proving, and human & brain
inspired Artificial Intelligence (AI). 
Miranda completed his Master of Engineering in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science under the supervision of 
[Professor Tomaso Poggio](https://mcgovern.mit.edu/profile/tomaso-poggio/) -- where he did research on Deep Learning Theory.
Miranda has been the recipient of several awards, 
including Most Cited Paper Certificate awarded by International Journal of Automation & Computing (IJAC),
two Honorable Mention with the Ford Foundation Fellowship,
Computer Science Excellence Saburo Muroga Endowed Fellow, 
Stanford School of Engineering fellowship, and is currently an EDGE Scholar at Stanford University.


![me](/images/me.png){:class="img-responsive"}


# Contact #

[//]: # (Department of Computer Science)

[//]: # (3333 Siebel Center,)

[//]: # (Urbana, Illinois, 61801.)

[//]: # (miranda9 {at} illinois DoT edu)

Department of Computer Science
Gates Computer Science Building
353 Jane Stanford Way
Stanford, CA 94305
brando9 {at} stanford DoT Edu

<!-- # Navigating my site # -->

<!-- I'm still organizing and continually working on my website but check my blog
where I am hoping to share useful things I know: -->

<!-- - Related to dance -->

<!-- I have cool [projects](/miscellaneous-projects) you might want to check. -->

# External links #

- [My Google scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=_NQJoBkAAAAJ&hl=en)
- [My home page when I was at MIT's Center for Brain Minds and Machines (CBMM)](https://cbmm.mit.edu/about/people/miranda)
- [My Stanford profile](https://profiles.stanford.edu/brando-miranda?releaseVersion=9.9.0)
- [My Stanford engineering profile](https://stanford.brightcrowd.com/eng-welcome-2022/brando-miranda)
- I have a passion to share my knowledge with the world. I love that with technology people have the improved opportunities to learn. With that motivation I can't help but enjoy sharing what I know in my [Quora profile](https://www.quora.com/profile/Brando-Miranda).
- [My Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/brando-miranda-40821046/)
- [My CV](/professional_documents/Brando_Miranda_long_CV.pdf)

Commit message:

working with me prospective students

home.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Home
---

# About me (Informal) #

I am a scientist and an engineer that is interested in moving forward the powerful
and beautiful field of A.I. closer to true Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).
I believe an important direction is understanding how to combine cognitive and neuro-inspired models, specially investigating how reasoning and learning work together.
In addition, I also believe being able to adapt to new tasks using prior experience and knowledge is crucial for AGI to occur.
Consequently, I decided to pursue a Ph.D in AI and machine learning. 
I currently work on meta-learning and machine learning (ML) for
Theorem Proving (TP) at Stanford University. 

# Bio #

Brando Miranda is a current Ph.D. Student at [Stanford University](https://stanford.edu) under the supervision of [Professor Sanmi Koyejo](https://cs.stanford.edu/~sanmi/index.html)
in the department of Computer Science.
Previously he has been a graduate student at [University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign](https://illinois.edu/), Research Assistant at MIT's 
[Center for Brain Minds and Machines (CBMM)](https://cbmm.mit.edu/), and graduate student at the [Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)](https://mit.edu/).
Miranda's research interests lie in the field of meta-learning, foundation models for theorem proving, and human & brain
inspired Artificial Intelligence (AI). 
Miranda completed his Master of Engineering in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science under the supervision of 
[Professor Tomaso Poggio](https://mcgovern.mit.edu/profile/tomaso-poggio/) -- where he did research on Deep Learning Theory.
Miranda has been the recipient of several awards, 
including Most Cited Paper Certificate awarded by International Journal of Automation & Computing (IJAC),
two Honorable Mention with the Ford Foundation Fellowship,
Computer Science Excellence Saburo Muroga Endowed Fellow, 
Stanford School of Engineering fellowship, and is currently an EDGE Scholar at Stanford University.


[//]: # (https://cs.stanford.edu/~sanmi/preparation.html  working with me, TODO: )

[//]: # (Our Culture:
[//]: # (
[//]: # (Our lab has a high technical bar, including a coding interview for all applicants. We constantly push each other to improve through continuous, regular feedback. We take mentorship seriously and are committed to students' success beyond their time in our lab. As a member of our lab, you will be working alongside prior USACO and IMO participants. We have exceedingly high expectations of all collaborators and do not tolerate mediocrity. look for his lab page Sebastian Thrun's lab.)
[//]: # (someone from caltech or something like htat?)

![me](/images/me.png){:class="img-responsive"}


# Contact #

[//]: # (Department of Computer Science)

[//]: # (3333 Siebel Center,)

[//]: # (Urbana, Illinois, 61801.)

[//]: # (miranda9 {at} illinois DoT edu)

Department of Computer Science
Gates Computer Science Building
353 Jane Stanford Way
Stanford, CA 94305
brando9 {at} stanford DoT Edu

<!-- # Navigating my site # -->

<!-- I'm still organizing and continually working on my website but check my blog
where I am hoping to share useful things I know: -->

<!-- - Related to dance -->

<!-- I have cool [projects](/miscellaneous-projects) you might want to check. -->

# External links #

- [My Google scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=_NQJoBkAAAAJ&hl=en)
- [My home page when I was at MIT's Center for Brain Minds and Machines (CBMM)](https://cbmm.mit.edu/about/people/miranda)
- [My Stanford profile](https://profiles.stanford.edu/brando-miranda?releaseVersion=9.9.0)
- [My Stanford engineering profile](https://stanford.brightcrowd.com/eng-welcome-2022/brando-miranda)
- I have a passion to share my knowledge with the world. I love that with technology people have the improved opportunities to learn. With that motivation I can't help but enjoy sharing what I know in my [Quora profile](https://www.quora.com/profile/Brando-Miranda).
- [My Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/brando-miranda-40821046/)
- [My CV](/professional_documents/Brando_Miranda_long_CV.pdf)
